Ideas for talks

Used:
What's cooking for JavaScript: a look at current TC39 proposals (accepted NDC Oslo 2019)
  In this lightning talk, I go over the current proposals for new language features
  in JavaScript and their current status. Pipelines, decorators, null coalescing
  and more is coming, but when? And how will it look like?
  
  
Working on:

React Hooks: Wrapping stateful APIs with stateless APIs
  Hooks have been a part of the React ecosystem for more than a year. In my talk, I share experience running them in production and frame Hooks as a tool that lets developers do the same kind of magic that React itself does - wrapping stateful, imperative logic with a stateless, declarative API. 

Crash course in Python object model for JS developers
  Both JavaScript and Python are popular dynamically typed scripting languages. Yet they have some important differences that are not immediately apparent. As someone who is working with both I want to share some common pitfalls JS devs might fall into when working with backend Python code. 

Making React front-end flexible for changing requirements

Mutation is okay if it's encapsulated and isolated

Using the Redux Toolkit for fun and profit

Quick tips on measuring performance on the web
Performance in SPAs is 


Ununsed:

Lisp up your JavaScript - Compile time transformations with Babel Macros
  With the widespread use of tools like Babel, JavaScript is effectively becoming a compiled language. 
  Babel Macros allows us to easily define custom code transformations to speed up development or create DSLs. 
  In this lightning talk, I will go over how they work and go through coding a simple example.

"Functional core, imperative shell" in React apps
  In this lightning talk, I look at how the traditional "functional core, imperative shell"
  type of architecture (also known as hexagonal architecture) meshes with React's component model
  and how it can help us reason about our code.
  
Code your tools: Making your own VS Code extensions
  Built on top of TypeScript, VS Code makes it easy for web developers to build extensions
  using it's tools and API. In this lightning talk I go over how you can start
  extending the editor to your liking and not have to wait for others to build extensions you need.
    
"This code does not exist"

Automatic code formatters on the rise (though maybe only in the JS world), solves problems in teams, fixes issues before they happen.

Problem-solution ordering issues (http://mkremins.github.io/blog/doors-headaches-intellectual-need/)
  
How could we improve and simplify integration testing for UI. Cypress, Selenium, unit tests, dont test logic, test what the user
would do, using property based testing, fuzzy testing, just having smoke tests? mutation testing https://www.fuzzingbook.org/html/MutationAnalysis.html

Show the path of code/execution all the way from clicking a button rendered in React to the network request, to the server response and back.

Checklists for software developers

A look at refused proposals for the JavaScript language

Lessons learned using Hooks for several months in production

Why immer is the best new library 

Differences in the object model in Python and JavaScript

Deep dive into JSON

Computer science is applied philosophy

Tension between domain driven design and Redux architecture

Object-closure duality in JavaScript vs Python

Deep dive into V8

Something something WebAssembly

React is Docker is Kubernetes: Value vs Reference semantics

These are some older things I thought about:
immediate mode vs retained mode

value semantics vs reference semantics

react vs dom

redux vs services

wrapping stateful apis with stateless apis

The most extremely relevant quote on how we do this: 

"React and Datomic hint at a general strategy for doing this: take a snapshot of the thing you have a reference to, transform the snapshot as if it’s a value, then atomically sync your snapshot with the real thing. The tricky part is providing performant implementations for snapshotting & syncing back."

from http://somethingdoneright.net/2015/07/30/when-object-orientation-works-a-rule-of-thumb.html 

important efforts in this area: 
React, Datomic

Rich Hickey, creator of Clojure created Datomic, where he's thinking of a Database as a Value (talk with the same name is great)

Also I have yet to read, but there is a paper about this called Out of the Tar Pit, that he references

The idea that React is this for the DOM, or generally for UI, blogpost by Andre Staltz, something like whats the best thing about React. It's not JSX or components, is that it wraps a retained mode graphics api like the DOM with an immediate mode api,
